# Simulation-of-Operating-System
This is a program that handles the basic data structures (i.e. the devices and their queues) in an operating system. The program has two stages of operation, the "sys gen" section, and the "running" section. During sys gen, the system installer (user) species how many devices of each type (printers and disks) are in the system. Also, the program ask user how much memory the system has. There is only one CPU. During the running section system calls are handled that were issued by the process currently controlling the CPU as well as interrupts that signal various system events. The calls and interrupts are indicated by the user input. Capital letters are the interrupts and lower case indicate system calls. An "A" entered on the keyboard indicates the arrival of a process. The handling routine will create a PCB (process control block) for this process, generate a PID (process ID), and enqueue the PCB into the Ready Queue. If the CPU is not occupied, the first process in the Ready Queue will be passed to the CPU. The process in the CPU can issue system calls. One of these is "t", which indicate that the process is terminating. The OS will recycle the PCB (but not the PID), in other words reclaim the now unused memory. Each non-CPU device has a "name" consisting of a letter and an integer. The process currently in the CPU will request "printer 1" by issuing a "p1" on the keyboard, and Printer 1 will signal an interrupt indicating completion of the task at the head of its queue with a "P1" being entered at the keyboard. Similarly, "d3" to request disk 3 and "D3" to signal D3's completion. On such a "task completed" interrupt the PCB for that process should be moved to the back of the Ready Queue.  After a system call (e.g. "p3") is made, the process (user is prompted) is prompted for various parameters. These should  include the filename, whether the requested action is a "read" or a "write" ("r" or "w" on the keyboard; You can only write to a printer, so won't have to prompt it) and, if a write, what is the file size. The PCB for this process and the associated information should be enqueued to the appropriate device queue.  Finally, an "S" on the keyboard indicates a "Snapshot" interrupt (simulating a Big Button on the Sys-op's console). The handling routine should wait for the next keyboard input and, if "r", show the PIDs of the processes in the Ready Queue, if "p", show the PIDs and printer specic information (this information for each printer includes I/O queue, the name of the file that is currently printing and its size) of the processes in the printer queues, if "d", do the same for the disks (for each disk it will be I/O queue, the name of the file that is currently printing, its size and type of operation ("read" or "write")).  If "S" interrupt is followed by "m", show the current state of memory (show where each process is located in memory).
